### Relationships with Sponsors

From the earliest days of our meetup our venues have been provided under sponsorship agreements. Initially these were venues like co-working spaces who provided their space free of charge in exchange for us talking about them and loving on them on social media. As business for them changed, we found ourselves paying for the venue and having to find sponsors who would cover that cost. Recently, after even that got too expensive we’ve had to go looking for new venues and new sponsorship arrangements.

It’s been a challenge… We looked at a bunch of options… University campuses, Bars/Pubs, Local community centres/venues. They all had their challenges… We found that university needed a connection at the venue, usually, we didn’t have that, and we wanted to meet at times that don’t work so well for the campus. Bars and Pubs often have a minimum spend if you’re using their room, so it’s going to cost money, and as we try to steer away from venues that provide alcohol for the meetup, they didn’t seem viable either.  Local community centres could have been viable but often are in regional suburbs and we were keen to be in an easily accessible, central place. We did find a local library that has fantastic facilities, and is affordable, but it wasn’t really easy to get to… so many issues! Finally as we emailed the meetup group to let people know we were looking, and could they offer any suggestions, one of our members who’s a tenant at a new co working venue introduced us… so here we are again with a free venue. Central to the city, close to public transport and really workable. All of our needs met.. .and we could have saved a whole lot of hassle if we’d asked the group first!! So, while the sponsorship arrangements may differ… either ‘in kind’ sponsorship like venue provision, or monetary sponsorship for payment of meetup fees, or pizza, the sponsorship relationship can be a little bit tricky to navigate, here are some tips on finding ‘good fit’ sponsorships that have a mutual benefit that’s even, rather than more in favour of one party than the other. Here’s how you go about looking for sponsorship.

1.  It is often better to ask. The best fit sponsors aren’t always going to come to you - and if they do approach you, figure out what they’re selling before you blindly take their money… you need sponsors who understand WordPress not just who want a platform for peddling their goods or services.
2.  Approach sponsors with whom you have something in common or who would have a natural connection with your audience.
3.  Have a strong, professional sounding sponsorship email request or ‘sales document’ outlining what your group is about and why you’d be a strong fit for developing a sponsorship arrangement. If you look like you take it seriously, sponsors will take you seriously.
4.  If a sponsor decides to come on board, respect their branding in your website and your communications about them
5.  Keep in touch with your sponsor, send them pictures of your meetup, keep them up to date with how they’re helping you. Don’t just see them as a cash dispenser, build a relationship with them - as that relationship develops and continues, your mutual benefit grows with your group.

If you’re interested in a template for the kind of email that’s useful for approaching sponsors, it too is available in the download pack from the link on this slide. If I may offer two words of caution about sponsorship - the first is Don’t let sponsorship change the nature of your group and if the things a sponsor wants from you starts to look like they’re making your meetup feel less like an Open Source and WordPress meetup, think very carefully about continuing. You have a culture to preserve, don’t let money get in the way of that. Word of Caution number two. Sponsorship is not about making a profit for your group, it’s not about storing up resources, it’s not about providing high end, fancy spaces or food - it’s simply about having your needs met. Try and keep your needs modest so that your sponsorship needs aren’t exorbitant!
